# senior-capstone
The University of St. Thomas’s mission is to, “educate students to be morally responsible leaders who think critically, act wisely, and work skillfully to advance the common good.” Throughout my time at this University, I have taken several classes inside the scope of computer science as well as outside it to build my skill set to further advance the common good.  

One of these classes that I have taken that has improved my skills is Advanced Information Security. A project that comes to mind for this class is creating a crypto wallet. I created a crypto wallet python code that uses the professor's toy crypto currency. In doing this project I learned how a crypto chain would operate and how to use the chain to create payment transactions as well as mining transactions. This project relates to the common good because cryptocurrency is becoming increasingly relevant, offering users a level of anonymity comparable to cash while also enabling digital transactions. Unlike physical currency, cryptocurrency facilitates secure online payments, which are essential in today's digital-first economy. 

Some other skills I learned in Information Security are different kinds of famous attacks such as padding oracle, buffer overflow, and return-to-libc. We practiced these skills in homework projects to better understand how they worked. Learning these famous attacks helped us understand vulnerabilities in code so that when we build our own code, we know what potential risks that we can avoid. For example, we learned how ASLR and Stack Canaries protect from buffer overflow attacks. ASLR is an important protection that randomizes the memory address of different code, data, and libraries. This protects from buffer overflow by making it difficult for the attacker to discover the memory address they should return to for them to successfully perform their attack. Stack Canaries are another form of buffer overflow defense. This technique’s name comes from the analogy canary in a coal mine which refers to how canaries were used as an early warning system for toxic gases in coal mines in the early 1900’s. In computer science, the stack canaries work in a similar manner as they act as a detection of tampering of the stack. These are values that are placed on the stack before important information like the return address. These values can detect buffer overflow attacks since they are checked and if they are not the expected value, this meaning tampering has taken place. This works towards the common good as it helps prevent security risks to those who may use the code we create in the future.  

Outside the scope of computer science, I have taken many philosophy classes that have helped me build my skills in critical thinking that I can use for the common good. Of these classes, the Philosophy of Social Justice is one that comes to mind. In this class we learned about many different perspectives of social justice. Many of these philosophies build off our understanding of justice which comes from the Byzantine Emperor Justinan the Great who defined justice as, “The constant and perpetual will to render each his due.” This class heavily aligns with the values of St. Thomas as we learned different views which all strive for the same goal of granting a fair and just life for all.  

Overall, my time at St. Thomas has not only developed my skills as a programmer but also as a team member and critical thinker. With these skills I can further the common good through collaboration and the quality of my work.
